the latest Tik Tok trend is in loud
budgeting what's that all about well in
today's video we're going to talk about
why that's really important for 2024 you
came here for the truth so let me unveil
that for you today I want to talk about
a few things and it starts with this new
tax deal you got to understand that not
just because of the taxes not just
because of the direct implications on
you but understanding how the Federal
Reserve is about to devalue your
currency to a rate you've never seen
before because of what's going on let me
explain first thing what's in the new
tax deal budget Watchdogs warn that
temporary changes to the tax code that
are being debated on Capital Hill will
lead to more deficits in the long run
that's the key okay deficits let me just
show you real quick there's a bunch of
stuff in there and you could see it for
yourself I will scroll down and through
here if you want to read it you can this
is a New York Times one but an expanded
child tax credit a boost for affordable
housing tax breaks for companies a
treaty for Taiwan offsetting tax cuts by
ending a separate credit those are the
things okay so what does it mean well we
got more deficits to expect there's no
question about that in fact I can show
you that here I give you the breakdown I
give you the details I give you the
charts each and every level
explained there it is okay that's the
breakdown it's showing you R&D research
and development you got the child tax
credit in there you've got interest
you've got everything and what we can
expect here is that they're going to
spend a lot of money up front all right
2024 we'll see if it gets pasted and and
quite
frankly you know they usually water
these things down they don't get what
they all want but then they stick in
some other things that shouldn't even be
there in the first place trillion here
trillion there there we go okay now I
think spending money to improve the
lives of people is a good thing most of
that is squandered though most of it
doesn't go to the people in need that's
a
fact however let's look at this through
the most important lens we can one that
is um completely ignored by just about
everybody but you're here you want the
truth okay so let me hit you with
it if the government has to go into
these deficits and they have to
essentially get you into more debt you
into more debt well then it will affect
you why well you got to know how this
works the government has to go into debt
well they have to take that package it
up and then sell that to an investor as
a
bond that's what they do they take the
debt package it up we need to raise
money okay let's sell this debt off just
like a company like apple oh we need to
raise capital okay how do we do that we
go to the debt Market okay got an idea
we're going to sell this
debt Apple's 10year Bond at 5% let's say
why would they do that well it's because
they'll give you
5% but in the meantime the cash that you
gave them they're going to make 20% on
that they're going to make 40% on it
whatever the case is and they make this
beautiful spread in between they pay you
back the cash so the idea is let's pay
back people
later but hopefully make money in
between now and then that's the idea
with the government they say we need to
build infrastructure we need to get all
these things hire employees whatever it
is they need to do all these different
things and in order to do that we need
to borrow money so we borrow it from the
investors who are willing to do that it
might be domestic it might be foreign
who who knows and so this happens and
that's fine but what happens when
there's too much debt what happens when
they want to do too much stuff and
there's not enough coming in not enough
tax dollars coming in record tax dollars
coming in by the way there not enough
taxes and there's not enough you know
exports and things like filling it up
the tank well then what do we do oh
there's one
solution well of course let's let's
break that down you can always
incentivize more investment and how you
do that it's the interest rate
associated with that debt so if you
don't have enough investors at 5% you
can offer 6% you can offer 7% 8% 9% but
remember the higher those interest rate
goes that's going to be difficult to pay
back right you got to watch your spread
starts to you know your margins start to
thin out that becomes a problem it's the
same as a corporation as an
entrepreneur these things are important
right but same with the government
too and then what happens here is you
run out of options because you don't
have enough
investors and these are done at auctions
and so when that auction happens you've
got the problem where uhoh we don't have
enough they're unders subscribed and now
the lender of Last Resort must come in
the buyer of Last Resort the Federal
Reserve if they start to monetize that
debt that it is in fact going to
instantaneously create
inflation that's the
problem we haven't got there yet it's
indirectly monetizing the debt as we see
it now with quantitative easing it's an
indirect thing it's really the same
thing but there's that one small step in
between but if they go into these Mass
deficits they devalue your currency
instantly instantly faster than Q one
two and three remember
that look at
this feds Rafael bosck expect rate cuts
to happen in the third quarter all right
we don't know of course um and these
guys are always kind of giving mixed
messages and each one has their own idea
of when it'll come and so so on but the
longer this takes the more the problems
will happen uh with the banks with with
everything that's going on with loans
tightening credit and so on but the
faster they cut the more inflation they
create and the the more risk that
they'll reignite
inflation and so either way you're
you're getting inflation do you see that
there doesn't seem to be much of a way
out now we could have a big Bank
collapse we could have all kinds of
stuff happening but we will you know
what they're trying to suggest is that
they will do a soft Landing so they're
going to just make sure that you know
you you don't have your tires out and
you're just going to fall oh so gentle
and you'll land in in a beautiful place
and it's going to be a okay I'm not so
sure about that what we can suggest here
is that the financial conditions have
eased over the last couple months that
tells us that things are a lot easier it
makes the you know the whole current of
current currency smoother what is
financial conditions depends on the one
you're looking at this is Goldman Sachs
but just broadly it it does include the
interest rates but so many other
different variables there how well does
money move from one place to another is
it moving all these things Financial
conditions overall broadly have declined
over the past couple months that means
money is easier now than it has been for
a long time okay soon as they started to
increase interest rates that's the
that's the scenario right now and that's
coming at a time in which look interest
rates are still high compared to where
they were and we haven't done any real
you know reduction in balance sheet
we're still at like7 trillion so I mean
it's unbelievable to see this kind of
thing but that's where we
are and then we get into this Americans
are ing week night fun can they be
tempted back entertainment chains ramp
up deals and all you can eat wings to
boost Monday through Thursday outings
you might see people doing the happy
hours businesses doing happy hours
during the week where you know cheaper
this cheaper that trying to bring those
people in trying to fill these places
that are empty the biggest the biggest
enemy of a restaurant is an empty chair
and so they need to fill that and so
they're enticing them with cheaper
prices with better deals promotions and
so on but it's a mixed bag mixed bag and
that leads into this I told you we're
going to talk about Tik Tok today
ticktockers are trying to save more
money in 2024 with the help of new loud
budgeting Trend all right so on the
onset of the year can often mean
adopting new behaviors or hacks to help
reach your financial goals some of these
are talking about loud budgeting the ter
viral on Tik Tok in the beginning of
2024 one video racking up 1.4 million
views uh essentially loud budgeting is
how you might uh be able to use it to
reach some of your financial goals loud
budgeting is a money saving technique
that involves declining social
opportunities such as grabbing dinner
with a friend or going to that
destination wedding when it puts your
financial goals in Jeopardy and telling
people that that's the reason you aren't
going okay that's that's the gist of it
and of course if you've got a goal
something small something simple nothing
should stand in your way absolutely
nothing so keep that in mind you got to
realize this that the most important
thing is your goals health goals
financial goals family relationship all
these things are the most important
thing but it tells us that we are in a
changing environment where people are
probably fed up they don't want to go
they realize ah my goodness it's going
to cost me this much to get there it's
going to cost me this much to get back I
got to worry about my rent I got to
worry about my bills all these things
are adding up so certainly that is a
very big issue for a lot of people and
it could be why you're not seeing as
much volume in the restaurants you're
not seeing as much volume in certain
places not in all places of course but
this is something that I like to take
because there anecdotal evidence that
starts to creep up and not really show
up anywhere else but you can see it if
you pay attention if you know what we're
talking about so you'll see that for
yourself um just an interesting look at
what's happening overall the government
wants to pump more cash the government
wants to do this deficits that could
benefit you but generally doesn't
benefit you or they give you little
crumbs okay and then we go into this
scenario in which they've got to devalue
your currency and you got to do your
best to save up your cash and invest it
in the right places that will hopefully
offset the devaluation that's a hard one
there's no question about it the very
first place if you want to know is
Encompass is totally free the money
gps.com go over to Compass and you will
learn about that the second place is the
money GPS live the money GPS live is
where I tell people how to actually
mitigate the effects of this inflation
particularly on the Sunday class okay um
at some point these videos got to stop
or slow down significantly so I'm not
going to be doing these daily videos you
know just just the way it's going for
obvious reasons so but I'll do my best
to keep those classes going okay and so
that's the thing if you want to get the
person who's been so highly accurate not
flip-flopping around okay uh then I hope
you'll you'll join me here on this
channel and of course on the lives as
well you can get that at the money
gps.com
live the money gps.com
slive and of course hit the thumbs up
button on the way out I'll see you
tomorrow take care